# My Article

Link: https://www.developer-tech.com/news/2023/aug/03/inworld-ai-npcs-now-valued-at-500m/

## Paragraph About the Article

As a gaming enthusiast, it's always interesting to analyze how game developers choose to integrate Non-Playable Characters (NPCS) into their creations. Do NPCs serve as a way to provide quests to the player? Do they look to add immersion into the imagined world? Are they used to build a connection with the player to progress the story? A memorable game utilizes NPCs as an asset to further their agendas. However, crafting immersive and realistic NPCs has always been challenging due to the intricate writing and programming they demand. Consider open world games where such characters need to be generated at scale, leaving little time for developers to focus on each one. In such cases, the NPCs are uninteractive and follow a simple and closed guideline on responding to the player's actions taking away from the immersion and realism of the game. 

With the improvements of AI and chatbot systems, game developers are now capable of reimagining the design of NPCs to address the flaws above. The article documents the company 'Inworld', a company building NPCs with AIs, pushing further into the market with increased funding. With over $120 million in funding from notable companies such as Stanford and Samsung, it is indisputable that many firms notice the potential of having AI NPCs due to their diverse functionality and increased immersiveness. Using 'Character Engine', the article notes that Inworld's AI NPCs are capable of 'multimodal character expression, mimicking human communication with non-verbal cues, emotional intelligence, memory, and autonomous decision-making communication'. This is impressive, to say the least, as NPC responses based on open player input have been nearly unseen in the past. In fact, the video in the article demonstrates the potential of using AI NPCs in education by allowing the player to answer verbally. If the potential of this AI can be realized, I believe it would mark a revolution in game design not only from an immersion standpoint, but also the efficiency it brings to the already overworked, underpaid and burnt-out game development industry. We have seen the capabilities of OpenAI in generating ideas, code and texts. It would not be difficult to imagine that functionality would be included for developers to prompt the AI in creating certain archetypes of NPCs and designs in much less effort a developer would take if they were to start from scratch.

One concern I would note is how the introduction and development of such technology might further question one's perception of reality. This was a concern of VR (Metaverse) and ever improving game graphics (e.g. Unreal Engine 5, Unheard). If NPC AI's are able to develop to a point where it could closely mimick human responses and actions, this would make it increasingly difficult to distinguish whom a player is interacting with online. Are they talking to a person or an NPC? This may call for the desensitization of online verbal abuse in multiplayer online games, furthering the issues of toxic communities in the future.